[IMP] accounting: Peru PLE reports (#18498)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/peru.rst

Contable General Empresarial)`, which is grouped in several categories and is compatible with NIIF
accounting.

.. _peru/configuration-ple:

PLE reports
~~~~~~~~~~~

 .. important::
    By default, :ref:`PLE reports <peru/reports-ple>` do not have any chart of accounts configured.

>     Make sure to configure a CoA upon installation of the Peruvian localization.

Reviewer: I'm still not so hot on chart of accounts etc, but ... isn't it a little odd to talk about configuring a chart of accounts for a report? And it's more a _type_ of chart of accounts, right? ... which I struggled to find a good wording for. 

What do you think of this suggestion?:

```suggestion
For the generation of :ref:`PLE reports <peru/reports-ple>`, the type of chart of accounts is not set by default, and must be set manually.
```
OR

```suggestion
For :ref:`PLE reports <peru/reports-ple>`, the type of chart of accounts is not set by default, and must be set manually.
```

Author: I'll try to do my best to explain reports and CoAs. Reports are basically summaries of amounts resulting from transactions between your and other businesses' accounts. Because there are many different transaction types (some stem from purchases, some from sales, some from taxes, ...), transactions are sorted using different account types. Because reports use accounts to report amounts, there are different report types based on the type of accounts they report (e.g., tax reports for taxes, aged receivables for money that should be received, aged payables for money that should be paid, ...).

Depending on the business type and legislation in force, businesses may have to use a specific, standardized chart of accounts (that is to say, a premade set of accounts). Consequently, because reports encompass a set (chart) of accounts, it can be important to have the right CoA set up, so that the report encompasses the right accounts. 

In this case, the Sunat (Peruvian tax report platform, I believe) rejects reports because it expects *local, standardized* type of accounts to be in the report, but they are not, because the CoA wasn't setup.

This is grossly summed up but I hope this helps you understand a bit better how the Accounting app works :)

I applied the first suggestion!

Reviewer: (Don't ask me to explain that to someone else, but ...) This helps me right now :wink: Thanks for the explanation.

To configure the PLE reports with a chart of accounts matching your business needs, open the
**Accounting** app, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll down to the

> :guilabel:`Peruvian Electronic Invoicing` section.

Reviewer: And ... this suggestion based a bit more on the wording in the Settings:

```suggestion
To set the appropriate type of chart of accounts for the generation of PLE reports, open the
**Accounting** app, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Peruvian Electronic Invoicing` section.
```

Click the :guilabel:`PLE Type of CoA` field, select the required chart of accounts required for you,
and :guilabel:`Save`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`PLE Type of CoA` field, select the required chart of accounts from the dropdown,
and click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

Permanent inventory reports: |PLE| 12.1 and |PLE| 13.1
------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

>    Make sure to have a chart of account :ref:`configured <peru/configuration-ple>` for your PLE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Make sure to :ref:`set <peru/configuration-ple>` the appropriate type of chart of accounts for your PLE
```

>    <peru/configuration-ple>` for your PLE reports.

Reviewer: I think this should just be:

```suggestion
   Make sure to :ref:`set <peru/configuration-ple>` the appropriate type of chart of accounts for your PLE
```
